What is the best way to find out what a person knows? While it sounds like a simple question, the answers that we have to date remain uncertain and inconsistent. More complicated still is what people aren't aware that they think. Most complex of all is to understand the cause of those thoughts; why they think what they think. All these are the daily concerns of higher education researchers, instructors and learners as we work to expand our human capacity for understanding each other and the world of which we are just one part. Enmeshed in this experience is awareness of possibilities, for example, that the most likely answer to "what is two plus two" is four, or that if two people would like two pizzas each that appropriate order is "four pizzas please". Traditionally, higher education has been more focused on the answer than how the answer is realised by the learner, and there is a longstanding discussion on the transferability of these answers to other questions. However, I argue that by combining some recent - and some vintage - research and investigation processes with some recent - and some legacy - technologies we can gain unprecedented insight into the black box that is the learner's world, making visible the relationships they use to generate that realisation at individual, group and cohort levels, and, to some extent, to gently challenge the certainty of those answers.

There are many streams of research striving to find practices that help students and their teachers find productive ground around constructing and representing knowledge, and the field is expanding day by day as cheaper and more accessible technologies offer different forms of data collection and analysis. Emergent fields like the Learning Sciences blend theoretical and methodological approaches from multiple disciplines with the aim of addressing the holistic _ecology_ that encompasses experiences outside the learner's formal educational environment. When combined, this broader scope and more complex data creates nuanced research about what and how people know that tends to focus tightly on a limited number of people, or a small excerpt of transcript, or a brief period of time, to be manageable within current work and research workloads and budgets. Teachers (and researchers) don't have a lot of time.

Much of this research is interested in the traces of interaction and other process data learners or research subjects generate through their participation with each other, the institution or the researcher. This is a well-established field of interest and body of literature based on solid, well-documented studies often featuring computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL). This mode of study provides at least some computer-generated data that would be hard to capture otherwise, for example, who has edited a shared artefact and how many times, and is frequently combined with data about knowledge building outcomes such as artefact quality or unit grades. Interactional frequency and productivity are both associated with better outcomes so far, but are difficult to mandate or control.

Deeper examination of this kind of data might reveal patterns of interaction between specific group members while working on a collaborative task, or proximity of conceptually-related words and phrases in conversation, and these in turn to be associated with an outcome against course and unit objectives. Research results guide learning design decisions as we (I, anyway) try each next time to get the formula "right", but it is human resource-intensive work that is often after the fact so might benefit those researched less, in the hope that it will benefit those who follow more. And while a key driver of our design is facilitation of meaningful interdisciplinary collaboration on authentic tasks with real-world outcomes, the uncomfortable reality for many teachers/designers and researchers is that the following semester is not a good fit for the formula, and might not benefit the cohort in the way we thought it would, because the real world has outcomes of its own in mind.

This is the kind of problem that is referred to as "wicked"; in a constant state of change, unpredictable and characterised by uncertainty. In the wicked world, two people ordering two pizzas each may find the appropriate order is "six pizzas please" once they find out the size has changed or the topping is particularly irresistible. Pizzas, are of course, only a delicious metaphor for much more demanding circumstances; from the plight of the smallest species right through to the existential dilemmas of the most self-important. It is no longer enough to know the answer. We now need to equip ourselves to find out the question.

Standing on the shoulders of giants, with my project aim to explore the way groups collaborate on problem solving in order to identify learning and  environmental design conditions sufficient to make fully inclusive, mutually beneficial decisions and create high-quality systems representations, I began my Literature Review.
