# Introduction Part 1 of 2

Higher education in Australia is changing. Our current environment is volatile, the influence of local and global, political and economic, machine and human decisions impacting both system and those within it deeply and at scale. The sudden and wholesale move to fully online interaction in March 2020, significant cuts to courses and staff levels, and continuing issues around Commonwealth funding have crystallised into teaching and research sites where previous paradigms of instruction and evaluation can not be maintained. If we are to continue to research how people learn, and learn together, we need to establish new ways to observe and measure what we are interested in. By designing mechanisms that are more internally robust, that can withstand some loss of environmental control, that can operate &quot;out of the lab&quot;, so to speak, we can enable learners, teachers and researchers to engage more deeply with their own developmental processes. By connecting these processes intelligently, we can create new knowledge and – even more importantly – we can share it.

Two particular impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic affected higher education in Australia more than other sectors. The most significant was the travel ban on overseas students arriving in Australia; next, the closure of university campuses. International study is Australia&#39;s third biggest export, and the financial loss incurred nationally has been estimated at up to AUD $16 billion by 2023. At the same time, local students and some who had remained or who had returned overseas found themselves doing every unit of study remotely, online, and in environments which they had probably not envisaged at the time of their enrolment. This has substantial challenges for both instructor and learner, and for researchers working with either or both. These challenges are likely to be amplified as cuts to courses and staff specifically, and higher education generally, mean face-to-face instruction and in-person tutorials are reduced or discontinued altogether. For an evolutionary process now understood as social, distancing students from each other and the instructor through distributed Zoom nodes will almost certainly have an impact on the way learning is experienced. In no area will that be more apparent, or important, than collaboration for learning.

Both learning to collaborate and actually collaborating are an important graduate foundation. Our working lives are often based on research, discussion and decision-making with others, regardless of vocation or discipline. In teaching collaboration, we know that there are methods that are effective for improving participation, foregrounding diverse voices, and challenging our own views. There is excellent research on the processes through which these can be assisted and observed, from both inside higher education and beyond. What has now changed is that where we could in more stable institutional environments observe student interactions within a designed system that was relatively impermeable to disruption, it is now more difficult to know when who talks to whom, what they say, and what that then means for their shared task. What we can know becomes less content-driven; a more structural understanding of what has changed, and when, and – if possible -- why. We need a manifestation that embodies both process and product and makes it material for others.

Knowledge objects, whether created either individually or collectively, take many forms. Increasingly, they are becoming digitised as a way of distributing them to others. Several types, such as essays or examinations, are becoming commodified in an emerging commercial marketplace. Complex types that expose iterative development by multiple participants engaged in negotiation are much more valuable to the collaborators both individually and as a shared group. Ideal knowledge objects contain information about the domain of inquiry and its internal and external dependencies and feedback loops. This thesis introduces model-building as a pedagogical strategy both for developing skilled collaboration practices and for creating artefacts that represent conceptual change.

While model building is not yet widely used in education, it has a solid research base in the elicitation of requirements and expertise. Collaboratively, it is process by which groups – often of diverse stakeholders – work together to model a process or outcome, taking into account system inputs, outputs and constraints. It works at a pedagogical level because of the need to externalise ideas from the learner&#39;s internal world into the model, where they must be situated within the context under discussion, which in turn requires an exchange of language clarifying that contextual intention and meaning. Individually, it is an often unarticulated process of assigning meaning and causality to externalities and not often investigated outside the domain of psychology. In both cases it is important because models can capture complex states over time. If we compare these states over time, we can observe change.

The data that creating models produces is ~~, like Prince Andrew,~~ both rich and thick. For the researcher, it can support existing modes of interaction-based and ethnographic research by adding a thick layer of phenomenographic data about ways of understanding and making meaning. For the designer/instructor, it offers both quantitative and qualitative feedback that is both human- and machine-interpretable, interoperable, and immediate. For the student/participant, it provides a rich metacognitive layer as they make meaning from their own data; for machine intelligence, a structured set of qualitative data with quantitative dimensions, itself a model of a different kind. The form of this data can be measured and manipulated at individual, group or broader levels, within and across participants, and represented in many ways, making it useful across disciplines, languages and cultures. It is exchangeable and interoperable even in a fully-online world.

Our understanding of learning, and of knowledge, continue to evolve, and the place of universities in our cultural landscape is uncertain. What was once considered a simple process of memorisation and repetition is now known to be both personal and relational. New conceptual understanding is known in relation to existing conceptual structures, and individuals frame these structures – as they must – within their own inner conceptual world. New mechanisms to elicit conceptual structures and observe their evolution can provide insights meaningful to both the student/participant and the instructor/researcher, without the time and workload entailed with traditional interaction data.

This thesis discusses three studies where students created shared collaborative models as an intentional task design, and answered survey responses using an under-operationalised technique known as the repertory grid. The results show that even in the most challenging circumstances learner development can be observed by both learner and instructor in a way that is measurable and actionable. These methods have significant potential not only to enhance our teaching and research at a time when our resources are constrained, but also to overcome some of the most intractable issues in higher education in Australia and internationally.

# Introduction Part 2 of 2

What is the best way to find out what a person knows? While it sounds like a simple question, the answers that we have to date remain uncertain and inconsistent. More complicated still is what people aren't aware that they think. Most complex of all is to understand the cause of those thoughts; why they think what they think. All these are the daily concerns of higher education researchers, instructors and learners as we work to expand our human capacity for understanding each other and the large world of which we are just one small part. Enmeshed in this experience is awareness of possibilities, for example, that the most likely answer to "what is two plus two" is four, or that if two people would like two pizzas each that appropriate order is "four pizzas please". Traditionally, higher education has been more focused on the answer than how the answer is realised by the learner, and there is a longstanding discussion on the transferability of these answers to other questions. However, I argue that by combining some recent - and some vintage - research and investigation processes with some recent - and some legacy - technologies we can gain unprecedented insight into the black box that is the learner's world, making visible the relationships they use to generate that realisation at individual, group and cohort levels, and, to some extent, to gently challenge the certainty of those answers.

There are many streams of research striving to find practices that help students and their teachers find productive ground around constructing and representing knowledge, and the field is expanding day by day as cheaper and more accessible technologies offer different forms of data collection and analysis. Emergent fields like the Learning Sciences blend theoretical and methodological approaches from multiple disciplines with the aim of addressing the holistic _ecology_ that encompasses experiences outside the learner's formal educational environment. When combined, this broader scope and more complex data creates nuanced research about what and how people know that tends to focus tightly on a limited number of people, or a small excerpt of transcript, or a brief period of time, to be manageable within current work and research workloads and budgets. Teachers (and researchers) don't have a lot of time.

Much of this research is interested in the traces of interaction and other process data learners or research subjects generate through their participation with each other, the institution or the researcher. This is a well-established field of interest and body of literature based on solid, well-documented studies often featuring computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL). This mode of study provides at least some computer-generated data that would be hard to capture otherwise, for example, who has edited a shared artefact and how many times, and is frequently combined with data about knowledge building outcomes such as artefact quality or unit grades. Interactional frequency and productivity are both associated with better outcomes so far, but are difficult to mandate or control.

Deeper examination of this kind of data might reveal patterns of interaction between specific group members while working on a collaborative task, or proximity of conceptually-related words and phrases in conversation, and these in turn to be associated with an outcome against course and unit objectives. Research results guide learning design decisions as we (I, anyway) try each next time to get the formula "right", but it is human resource-intensive work that is usually after the fact so might benefit those researched less, in the hope that it will benefit those who follow more. And while a key driver of our design is facilitation of meaningful interdisciplinary collaboration on authentic tasks with real-world outcomes, the uncomfortable reality for many teachers/designers and researchers is that the following semester is not a good fit for the formula, and might not benefit the cohort in the way we thought it would, because the real world has outcomes of its own in mind.

This is the kind of problem that is referred to as "wicked"; in a constant state of change, unpredictable and characterised by uncertainty. In the wicked world, two people ordering two pizzas each may find the appropriate order is "six pizzas please" once they find out the size has changed or the topping is particularly irresistible. Pizzas, are of course, only a delicious metaphor for much more demanding circumstances; from the plight of the smallest species right through to the existential dilemmas of the most self-important. It is no longer enough to know the answer. We now need to equip ourselves to find out the question.

Standing on the shoulders of giants, my project aim was to explore how groups use designed tasks and environments to collaborate on shared models to find those learning conditions sufficient to foster fully inclusive, mutually beneficial decision-making and the creation of high-quality systems representations. I began my Literature Review.
