Methodology
===========

Systematic scoping review
-------------------------

I chose the systematic scoping review as a methodological approach with
the aim of providing a "baseline" for research on Repertory Grid
Technique (RGT) at this point in time. A true systematic review requires
multiple researchers, often working across institutions, thus unsuitable
for a single PhD candidate. Even scoping reviews are sometimes done by
multiple researchers, particularly if the topic has a large literature
base. Before deciding on this methodology I did some preliminary
searches to check that it was viable, and discussed the approach at
length and in-person with our Faculty Librarian (to whom I am very
grateful).

The first part of my approach is to use a Qualitative Data Analysis
System (MAXQDA) to describe how a systematic scoping review is
conducted. However, I kept the previous coding scheme in MAXQDA because
it took sooooo long to create and I don't know how different my new one
will be. I also created an empty EndNote Library to ensure that each
addition to the review has been properly identified within the search
protocol. The initial papers telling me how to do the scoping review
were given to me by the Librarian and I use them here to explain how
this review type is appropriate to the thesis apart from the
single/multiple researcher issue.

There are many types of structured literature reviews, and while the
methodology for full systematic literature reviews is well established
in many fields, less rigorous methods are not as well-defined {Arksey,
2005 \#7}. The 'scoping' approach is purposeful in this study, as I aim
to review the broad range of research on using RGT in education,
summarising and disseminating methods for pedagogical and research
implementation, and identifying gaps in the research which could be
usefully addressed. However, where scoping reviews may not traditionally
measure the success of the studies it finds {Arksey, 2005 \#7}, in this
research I will foreground case studies which have demonstrated results
and use them as models for resource development.

Following the framework suggested by Arksey and O'Malley (2005), I use a
staged approach to develop a research question and protocol for finding
relevant studies, summarising findings, then reporting the results. I
might adapt the Arksey idea of consultation in the review process to
consultation about which pedagogical models and resources would be most
helpful. As an important feature of systematic scoping reviews is
replicability, the process I used is set out in rigorous transparency in
this chapter.

### Identifying the research question

While the broad research question has been established as "How is
Repertory Grid Technique used in higher education?", Arksey and O'Malley
(2005) suggest beginning by considering which aspects of the question
are most important to develop a search strategy. "Repertory Grid
Technique" is unambiguous conceptually and the most important feature.
However, it might be described using different phraseology, for example,
RepGrid, and that must be clear in the search parameters. "Education" is
potentially more difficult, as it is a very broad field ranging from 0-5
childhood right through to professional education. The target audience
for this study is higher education students, instructors and
researchers, which might not be specified in accessible search fields,
requiring closer reading to establish. This is consistent with Arksey
and O'Malley (2005) description of the process of scoping reviews as
iterative and reflexive while at the same time comprehensive and
documented in detail.

### Finding relevant studies

While I had found a range of studies around RGT in education in previous
research enterprises, for this systematic scoping review I set those
aside as \[can't remember the metaphor for something that should be
found through those other searches\]. Faculty Librarian suggested a
series of expanding database searches focused initially in Australia and
about Education, then extending out as far as initial parameters allow.

![](media/image1.png){width="3.138888888888889in"
height="3.0694444444444446in"}

Figure 1: Database search sequence & strategy

I blended this with additional possible sources listed in the University
of Sydney Library's [Systematic Review
Toolkit](https://library.sydney.edu.au/research/systematic-review/?section=before-you-start).
In addition to database searching, two key websites were also used to
find relevant studies. \<
<http://www.pcp-net.org/encyclopaedia/main.html>\> is a site dedicated
to Personal Construct Psychology, the foundation for RGT, and \<
<http://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~gaines/repplus/>\> contains years of
research by Gaines & Shaw, conceptual and technical experts. More later.

Before I finalised my research question, I checked for registration of
systematic reviews at [Joanna Briggs
Institute](https://joannabriggs.org/research/registered_titles.aspx) at
1138 on Saturday 28 Sep. 19 using the search term "repertory", and no
titles were returned. I also checked
[PROSPERO](https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/) at 1140 on the same
day, identifying three registrations of systematic review in progress.
Two were related to specific medical interventions, and the other to
psychotherapy {Helena García-Mieres, \#68;Lauren Brown, \#67;Mozart
Walz, \#66} so they are outside the scope of this review.

The search parameters I used were intended to be broad enough to find
studies that did not always use the full terminology "repertory grid
technique", but defined enough so studies referring to software
development tools
"[WebGrid](https://www.creativebloq.com/web-design/create-custom-tables-webgrid-9134626)",
reactive gas technique
"[RGT](https://plasticsdecorating.com/articles/2015/understanding-reactive-gas-technology/)",
or reactive gas timing
"[RGT](https://plasticsdecorating.com/articles/2015/understanding-reactive-gas-technology/)".
Parameters for each database differ slightly to reflect their
conventions and constraints. Searches were performed in the order below.

Table 1: Sequence of searches

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Source                                                               |
+======================================================================+
| 1.  A+                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2.  ERIC                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 3.  PSYCINFO                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.  JSTOR                                                            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 5.  Web of Science                                                   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 6.  Scopus                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 7.  PROSPERO                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 8.  Proquest                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 9.  Cochrane Library                                                 |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 10. TRIP                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 11. epistemonikos                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 12. http://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/\~gaines/reports/                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 13. [[http://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/\~gaines/repplus/markdown/]{.    |
| underline}](http://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~gaines/repplus/markdown/) |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 14. [[http:                                                          |
| //pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/\~gaines/BooseBradshaw/index.html]{.underli |
| ne}](http://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~gaines/BooseBradshaw/index.html) |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                      |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

PSYCINFO returned a high number of results, which is expected because of
RGT's origin in Personal Construct Psychology. Two approaches were taken
to reduce this set to more relevant studies. First, repeating the search
without the ALL "repertory grid technique", to exclude studies where it
is used as background or in the bibliography. While the second search
still returned over 900 results, a manual review was done to identify
those in educational contexts, OR by authors of previously identified
key works \[eg Markus Heckmann\].

With JSTOR, in contrast, only 10% of articles have abstracts, so the
full text search was important, even though it returned 266 different
works (and it's very painful to export from JSTOR so I'd rather get them
all out now). While Web of Science does allow refinement by category, as
there are only 165 papers returned from the search of *71,985,608so* I
will manually check those as there appears to be only 1 or two in each
category so it would take me more time to do all those checkboxes (see
JSTOR above :-\\). Known issue with Scopus 30/9 where *We have
identified an issue which means that some sources will face delays in
new issues being added to Scopus. We apologize for any inconvenience and
will share updates via Twitter (\@Scopus) and via the *[Scopus blog
here](https://blog.scopus.com/posts/scopus-is-experiencing-some-issues-related-to-content-currency)* \[no
info about which sources or delay on blog, just watch blog or \@scopus
for updates\]. Because it returned so many results, used limiters to
include only social sciences, psychology, arts, decision science,
neuroscience, multidisciplinary and undefined. Also need to keep track
of articles suggested by recommended services eg Mendeley. Subject
filter in ProQuest not suitable for refinement as categories do not
reflect my differentiation (eg studies, humans etc.). A high proportion
of these results were in theses, so I refined the search to search only
the title and abstract, because I wanted only studies in which the
technique was foregrounded as they would be the most useful.*

*Made a mistake while re-doing Cochrane Library search, deleting the EN
groups previously added but not the references. This will need to be
addressed in the de-duplication process but as there are only 13/16
references this should be fine.*

As I didn't have a PRO TRIP subscription, I manually copied and pasted
the web results into Excel for checking prior to setting up a RIS in EN
for them.

*Epistemonikos is also focused on health and clinical psychology.*

*The initial search phase results are at Table n.*

Table 2: Initial search results before duplicates were removed.

  Database           Results for search   
  ------------------ -------------------- ---------------
  A+                 76                   
  ERIC               205                  
  PSYCINFO           957                  
  JSTOR              255                  
  Web of Science     165                  
  Scopus             1946                 
  PROSPERO           2                    
  Proquest           603                  
  Cochrane Library   17                   
  TRIP               33                   not yet in EN
  epistemonikos      9                    
  total              4235                 
  EN =               4243                 
  method             7                    
  test               1                    
  diff               0                    

The subject databases accessed are focused more on Randomised Control
Trials, so additional searches across grey literature are also relevant.
Substantial bodies of work are available from the authors of the WebGrid
RepGrid analysis software (Shaw and Gaines, 2018), as seen at Table N.

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Webpage                          | Results for search               |
+==================================+==================================+
| http://pages.cp                  | 197 less 1 duplicate, less 1     |
| sc.ucalgary.ca/\~gaines/reports/ | HTML                             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 198 files in folder as added     |
|                                  | PDF, HTML & MOV from the HTML    |
|                                  | page                             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | So 195 pdf, 1 web page linked to |
|                                  | 3 pdfs already included, and one |
|                                  | movie framed in the page. \[but  |
|                                  | file count is 198 because I also |
|                                  | saved a PDF of the webpage\]     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| <http://pages.cpsc.ucalga        | 49 (1 duplicate = 48, Carol      |
| ry.ca/~gaines/repplus/markdown/> | tutorial not file, just HTML     |
|                                  | folder = 47)                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| <http://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~ | 28 (no duplicates)               |
| gaines/BooseBradshaw/index.html> |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

All PDF and Microsoft Word document files were downloaded from each web
page. Folder contents were saved as text and compared with the links in
each web page to identify duplicates or non-document files. One HTML
page was saved as PDF and the embedded movie converted to current MP4
standards; two duplicates were removed.

I created a separate EN Library for these papers as they were likely to
be foundational to the journal articles which would follow. I attempted
to import the word documents to Mendeley to automatically attach
citation data but that didn't work for Boose. It worked slightly better
for the Reports documents as they were mostly PDF. But then I needed to
go through each document and review it. But then EN wouldn't import the
.xml or the .ris. So in the end I did this after I read Mildred's
thesis. 196 references were imported with Attachments. Started checking
ID at 1523 25102019. Finished 24 by 1741. Break,

I decided to read the Thesis first, after I convert it to text and pull
it into MAXQDA. Then coded and summarised in [../../Summaries/Shaw
recognised the tensions inherent in the need for educational contexts to
connect personally meaningful concepts with established traditions
and.docx](../../Summaries/Shaw%20recognised%20the%20tensions%20inherent%20in%20the%20need%20for%20educational%20contexts%20to%20connect%20personally%20meaningful%20concepts%20with%20established%20traditions%20and.docx).

Then there are the books. I focused on the most recent volume of the
most cited? Work by Fransella, Bay & Bannister.

One limitation of scoping reviews is that they do not provide an
exhaustive and formal appraisal of evidence across the body of research
{Arksey, 2005 \#7}. This is a significant issue for health and medical
research with randomised and controlled trials, but less problematic for
this study, as any evaluative methods are likely to be highly variable
and context-dependent. The systematic process of scoping is likely to be
beneficial to our understanding of those evaluative methods and the
situations in which they are found.

*Persistent problems occurred with searching caused by cookie and
adblocker issues. It was difficult to have effective privacy settings as
well as save searches and set alerts. That meant I had to repeat several
searches from the beginning, as what ever the problem was would only
become clear when I tried to either save or set a search alert or export
search results.*

While manually deleting duplicates, thinking of words to exclude
further:

Clinic\*

Patient\*

Counsel\*

Child\*

Expert Systems; Study findings from National Chiao Tung University
provide new insights into expert systems looks like a dup but need to
see paper.

Construing of self and others at work in the early years of corporate
careers.

The convergent validity of structural measures of differentiation
derived from repertory grids.

The Repertory Grid Technique as a Customer Insight Method'

Negotiation in Strategy Making Teams: Group Support Systems and the
Process of Cognitive Change

Inferential Statistics: Understanding Expert Knowledge and Its
Implications for Statistics Education

Metcalfe\'s law and operational, analytical and collaborative CRM-using
online business communities for co-creation

Construing of self and others at work in the early years of corporate
careers

Two-component solutions of repertory grid data: A comparison of three
methods

Some suggestions for mapping organizational members\' sense of fit

Eliciting Managers\' Personal Values: An Adaptation of the Laddering
Interview Method

Research applications of the repertory grid technique

Structure of multi-criteria decision-making

AI focus / captcha

The use of repertory grids to develop a user-driven classification of a
collection of digitized photographs

Management focus picks for KPMG:

The use of the repertory grid for collaboration and reflection in a
research context

\-- moved to GitHub 1547 Tuesday 29 October 2019
