Phenomenography, as a learning sciences research tool, is concerned with enquiring into the variations in experience of different people in similar situations. In educational research specifically, it is concerned with what the "outcome space" is for students when asked how they structure their understanding of the system of inquiry, for example, digital affordances for collaboration (Lina & Dewa). It is usually conducted by  in-person interview, in a semi-structured form, and then the individual responses aggregated to determine a range of themes. This range is similar to what in Epistemic Network Analysis might term "the universe of discourse" at a local level. It does not capture the total world conception of experience, but the realm of experiences over the cohort that is being surveyed. Both the data collection and analytical components are resource intensive, with multiple stages of interview, transcription, sorting and modelling conducted iteratively in order to collect the richest data possible. Emerging technologies such as automated transcription and qualitative data analysis applications are reducing some of the the "grunt" work, and still this method needs a thorough understanding of the disciplinary discourse in its original Martonian form.

Other researchers have varied the method (more Lina, other papers)...

While Phenomenography is well-validated methodology with a stable research base in education, most researchers [] in this area recognise that it is difficult to conduct at scale for a number x of reasons. The first barrier is the amount of time taken to conduct the data collection and make it accessible to thematic and/or statistical manipulation. A second barrier is the nature of data collection in semi-structured interview and the complex nature of the interview record where the participants may have diverse ways of framing the question responses. 


In the current 2020 research context, meeting over Zoom and being able to automatically record and transcribe interviews will be of some assistance in this regard, and emerging technologies   
